The traditional approach to summarizing dense, complex, and jargon-filled legal documents is done manually. The Indian Legal Database Corpus (ILDC) is put forward as the primary dataset. The proposed system uses NLP and is fine-tuned on this dataset which allows it to produce brief, legally accurate, and understandable summaries.

Legal text summarization has been a major area of research, with different approaches being proposed over the years to improve the precision and efficiency of the summarization system. The present work seeks to build a NLP-based legal summaries system. It provides a significant speedup in processing time while promoting other legal stakeholders' increased accessibility and readability.

Legal contracts very often have clauses in complex form and require simplification. NLP-based systems have been proposed which are trained on specialized database of document to simplify regulatory compliance. T5 is a general-purpose language model that frames all NLP tasks as text-to-text transformations. PEGASUS, on the other hand, is a model pre-trained specifically for summarization tasks using a novel objective.

Legal documents are broken into chunks. Each chunk is summarized separately, and these separate chunks are merged to form a complete summary. The model was able to summarize legal documents, which does high accuracy with high reliability. We suggest that further contributions must be made towards fine-tuning the model.

This work shows that T5,  when  fine-tuned  on  ILDC, is highly effective at legal document summaries. The model assures 100% text extraction, meaning preservation, and  readability. Training the T5 model with a multilingual legal database will enhance its ability to process legal documents in regional languages like Hindi, Tamil, and Bengali.

olutional  Neural  Networks  for  Extreme Summarization,"  Proceedings  of  the 2018  Conference  on  Empirical  Methods in Natural  Language  Processing (EMNLP),  2018. Link  grotesquely: "Legal  Document  Summarizing  using  Transformer-based  Models"